.\" man page template. See intro.l for more stuff to use
.Dd May 21, 2019
.Dt MFLOCK 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm mflock
.Nd the molecular dynamics optimizer in chromflock.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy mflock
.Op Fl w Fl Fl wFile Ar wFile
.Op Fl L Fl Fl lFile Ar lFile
.Op Fl x Fl Fl xFile Ar xfile
.OP Fl o Fl Fl outFolder Ar folder
.Op Fl e Fl Fl errstop Ar X
.Op Fl g Fl Fl gradstop Ar X
.Op Fl l Fl Fl linestop Ar X
.Op Fl n Fl Fl maxiter Ar X
.Op Fl t Fl Fl maxtime Ar X
.Op Fl s Fl Fl seed Ar seed
.Op Fl r Fl Fl rFile Ar rfile
.Op Fl V Fl Fl kVol Ar kVol
.Op Fl I Fl Fl kInt Ar kInt
.Op Fl S Fl Fl kSph Ar kSph
.Op Fl G Fl Fl kRad Ar kRad
.Op Fl R Fl Fl radius Ar r0
.Op Fl v Fl Fl verbose Ar level
.Op Fl o Fl Fl oFolder Ar ofolder
.Op Fl D Fl Fl dynamic 
.Op Fl z Fl Fl cmmz
.Op Fl D Fl Fl dynamic
.Ys
.Sh DESCRIPTION
mflock uses molecular dynamics to find a 3D structure based on a contact indication matrix
W.
For a complete description on how it is implemented, please see the documentation under 'doc/' in the source directory.
In short: Verlet integration is used to update the positions of the beads which are under influence of a set of forces:
a) Volume exclusion (beads should not overlap), controlled by 
.Ar kVol
b) Spherical containment, that keeps the beads in the unit sphere, controlled by
.Ar kSph
c) Interaction forces that keeps beads with indicated contacts to be close to each others, controlled by
.Ar kInt
d) Possibly also a radial preference per bead, controlled by 
.Ar kRad
By design all beads have to have the same size and the geometry is always in the unit sphere (radius=1).
.Sh wFile
The wFile contains 
W, a [NxN] size symmetric matrix stored linearly and encoded as 'uint8'.
.Sh xFile
The xFile contains 3D coordinates
.Ar X
that the molecular dynamics will start from. If not passed, beads will be placed randomly within the domain. 
Note that the parser is primitive and might fail if the xFile is edited without care. 
It reads comma separated values and does not accept headers, comments, etc. 
.Sh oFolder
An output folder called 'cf_%05d/' will be created if no oFolder is specified.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl w Fl Fl wFile Ar file
Specifies the contact indicator matrix to be used where 1=contact, and 0=non contact. A force of kInt will be placed between beads that are in contact.
.It Fl L Fl Fl lFile Ar file
Specify a file with labels (chromosome) for the beads.
.It Fl x Fl Fl xFile Ar file
Specify a file with coordinates for the beads.
.It Fl s Fl Fl seed Ar x
Set a seed for the random number generator. If not time(NULL)*getpid() will be used.
.It Fl r Fl Fl rFile Ar file
Specify a file with radial information to be used with kRad
.It Fl e Fl Fl errstop Ar x
Set a stop condition on the error.
.It Fl g Fl Fl gstop Ar x
Set a condition for stopping on the gradient magnitude.
.It Fl l Fl Fl ltol Ar x
Set the line tolerance (only for Quasi-Newton) 
.It Fl n Fl Fl maxiter Ar n
Set the number of iterations to be used.
.It Fl t Fl Fl maxtime Ar t
Limit the simulations in time
.It Fl V Fl Fl kVol Ar k
Set the volume exclusion force
.It Fl I Fl Fl kInt Ar k
Set the interaction force.
.It Fl S Fl Fl kSph Ar k
Set the force used to keep the beads in the domain.
.It Fl G Fl Fl kRad Ar k
Set the force for the radial guidance of the beads.
.It Fl R Fl Fl radius Ar r0
Set the bead radius.
.It Fl v Fl Fl verbose Ar level
Set verbosity level
.It Fl o Fl Fl oFolder
specify output folder
.It Fl z Fl Fl cmmz
Write compressed chimera files.
.It Fl D Fl Fl dynamic
Enable molecular dynamics (will be default in the future). If not a Quasi-Newton optimizer is used.
.It Fl c Fl Fl compress
Use chromosome compression.
.It Fl a Fl Fl live
Pops up a renderer that shows the beads during the simulation. Requires that mflock is compiled with SDL2.
.It Fl h Fl Fl help
Show a brief help message.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
See the script `/util/chromflock_run`.
.Ss Basic usage:
Assume that you want to discard sequences in sequences.fa that are also in Chr1, then run:
.Pp
$ mflock --wFile ../W.uint8 --lFile ../L.uint8
.Sh SEE ALSO
chromflock, aflock
